---
title: Davit Jintcharadze
---

As an incoming fellow at Newspeak House, I intend to focus on developing skills and experience to advance an area that I find neglected and important - preventing the spread of authoritarianism and empowering democratic actors in hybrid/transitionary countries.

I grew up in a small city in the Republic of Georgia. After becoming independent from the USSR, Georgia faced a series of political events, including wars, revolutions, and rigged elections. After establishing a hybrid democracy and a relatively calm few years, Georgia became a victim of an oligarch-ruled government with strong ties to Russia. Since 2019, the Georgian regime has gotten increasingly oppressive. Waves of oppression forced many Georgians, including myself, to protest for their democratic and European future.

Seeing that simply protesting was not enough, in 2024, I co-founded a new pro-democracy, pro-EU party called “Freedom Square”. The same year, we participated in elections with a group of other pro-democracy parties to defeat a pro-Russian regime. Despite all independent exit polls showcasing a decisive oppositional victory, the ruling party has rigged the vote and stayed in power illegally.

I ran a campaign educating voters on psychological biases that the government used to influence the voting procedures. I also helped organise a massive daily protest that lasted more than 190 days. We faced beatings, imprisonment, and censorship, but we still decided to continue fighting for our democracy. This is all to say that I know first-hand how democracies fall to malevolent actors, and I know that we should act to stop the spread of authoritarianism.

I believe that understanding the popular support behind authoritarian regimes requires a background in psychology. I did an undergraduate degree in psychology at New York University in Abu Dhabi, for which I received a full scholarship. I am currently doing a 3-year MA in psychology at the University of Cambridge. My background in psychology has allowed me to see how prominently authoritarian regimes influence public opinion, and now I am exploring the importance of technology in combating these influences.

Authoritarian actors have been much more successful at using social media and technology to engineer public opinion - we have countless examples of authoritarian regimes emerging from somewhat democratic elections - in the Philippines, Hungary, Georgia, Slovakia, and many other countries. Often, they have achieved this through troll factories, organized disinformation campaigns, and technologies that integrate well with social media. I believe this was first done in the Philippines back in 2012 with the election of Alberto Duterte, but it took democratic actors relatively recently to start thinking about effective technological solutions.

I view Newspeak House as a place where people with experience and passion in advancing social causes can learn to use technology to respond to the malevolent actors, and this is precisely what I intend to do. One of my ambitions during the program is to develop a tool that will allow groups of people from low and middle-income countries to measure public opinion and manipulation of such opinion in a relatively cheap, reliable, and safe way. Another idea I have is to design a tool that would link disinformation narratives to psychological biases and help politicians adjust their strategy in elections accordingly. I am yet to form a specific and measurable goal for the fellowship, but I will be basing myself on these ideas and thinking about solutions that can be applied both in the UK and globally.
